access-apikey.md, before:

---

copyright: 
  years: 2014, 2024
lastupdated: "2024-03-15"


keywords: containers, kubernetes, infrastructure, rbac, policy

subcollection: containers


---


{{site.data.keyword.attribute-definition-list}}


# Setting which credentials to use for creating clusters
{: #access-creds}
{: help}
{: support}

To successfully provision and work with clusters, you must ensure that your {{site.data.keyword.cloud_notm}} account is correctly set up to access infrastructure and other services that you use in each resource group and region that your clusters are in.
{: shortdesc}

{{site.data.keyword.containerlong_notm}} accesses the infrastructure portfolio and other services that you use in your cluster by using an [API key](/docs/account?topic=account-manapikey). This API key stores the credentials of a user in the account to the infrastructure and other services. {{site.data.keyword.containerlong_notm}} uses the API key to order resources in the service, such as new worker nodes or VLANs in IBM Cloud infrastructure.

By default, the account owner's credentials are stored in the API key. However, to avoid tying your cluster resources to a specific user, such as the account owner, consider using a functional ID instead of a personal user.


## Setting the cluster credentials
{: #admin-set-credentials}

1. As the account owner, [invite a functional ID](/docs/account?topic=account-iamuserinv) to your {{site.data.keyword.cloud_notm}}.
1. [Assign the functional ID the correct permissions](/docs/containers?topic=containers-iam-platform-access-roles).
1. Log in as the functional ID.
    ```sh
    ibmcloud login
    ```
    {: pre}

1. Target the resource group where you want to set the API key.

    If you don't target a resource group, the API key is set for the default resource group. To list available resource groups, run `ibmcloud resource groups`.
    {: note }

    ```sh
    ibmcloud target -g <resource_group_name>
    ```
    {: pre}

1. Create an API key.
    ```sh
    ibmcloud ks api-key reset --region <region>
    ```
    {: pre}    

1. Verify that the API key is set up.
    ```sh
    ibmcloud ks api-key info --cluster <cluster_name_or_ID>
    ```
    {: pre}

1. Repeat these steps for each region and resource group that you want to create clusters in.

Commit message:

Derek Poindexter: Merge pull request #12437 from alchemy-containers/securitygroups

access-apikey.md, after:

---

copyright: 
  years: 2014, 2024
lastupdated: "2024-03-18"


keywords: containers, kubernetes, infrastructure, rbac, policy

subcollection: containers


---


{{site.data.keyword.attribute-definition-list}}


# Setting the cluster credentials 
{: #access-creds}
{: help}
{: support}

{{site.data.keyword.containerlong_notm}} accesses the infrastructure portfolio and other services that you use in your cluster by using an [API key](/docs/account?topic=account-manapikey). This API key stores the credentials of a user in the account to the infrastructure and other services. {{site.data.keyword.containerlong_notm}} uses the API key to order resources in the service, such as new worker nodes or VLANs in IBM Cloud infrastructure.
{: shortdesc}

By default, the account owner's credentials are stored in the API key. However, to avoid tying your cluster resources to a specific user, such as the account owner, consider using a functional ID instead of a personal user.


## Resetting the cluster API key
{: #admin-set-credentials}

Complete the following steps to reset the API key that is used by the cluster. When the API key is reset, the previous API key that was used, if any, for the region and resource group is now obsolete. You can then delete the old API key from your list of API keys.

If you use the {{site.data.keyword.block_storage_is_short}} or cluster autoscaler add-ons in your cluster, you must re-create the add-on pods after you reset your API key. For more information, see [{{site.data.keyword.block_storage_is_short}} PVC creation fails after API key reset](/docs/containers?topic=containers-vpc-block-api-key-reset-ts) and [Autoscaling fails after API key reset](/docs/containers?topic=containers-ts-storage-ca-apikey-reset).
{: important}

Make sure that the user or functional ID that runs this command has the [required  permissions](/docs/containers?topic=containers-iam-platform-access-roles) including the required permissions for other services or integrations. Target the resource group and region that you want to set the API key for.
{: important}

1. As the account owner, [invite a functional ID](/docs/account?topic=account-iamuserinv) to your {{site.data.keyword.cloud_notm}}.
1. [Assign the functional ID the correct permissions](/docs/containers?topic=containers-iam-platform-access-roles).
1. Log in as the functional ID or user whose credentials you want to use in the cluster.
    ```sh
    ibmcloud login
    ```
    {: pre}

1. Target the resource group the cluster is in.

    If you don't target a resource group, the API key is set for the default resource group. To list available resource groups, run `ibmcloud resource groups`.
    {: note }

    ```sh
    ibmcloud target -g <resource_group_name>
    ```
    {: pre}

1. Reset the API key.
    ```sh
    ibmcloud ks api-key reset --region <region>
    ```
    {: pre}    

1. Verify that the API key is set up.
    ```sh
    ibmcloud ks api-key info --cluster <cluster_name_or_ID>
    ```
    {: pre}

1. Repeat these steps for each region and resource group where you want to reset the cluster API key.
