---

copyright:
  years: 2024, 2025
lastupdated: "2025-03-18"

keywords: activity tracker, cluster management, events, logging, containers

subcollection: containers

---

{{site.data.keyword.attribute-definition-list}}

_Include your activity tracking events file in an Observability topic group in the How to navigation group in your toc.yaml file._



# Activity tracking events for {{site.data.keyword.containerlong_notm}}
{: #at_events}



{{site.data.keyword.cloud_notm}} services, such as {{site.data.keyword.containerlong_notm}}, generate activity tracking events.
{: shortdesc}

Activity tracking events report on activities that change the state of a service in {{site.data.keyword.cloud_notm}}. You can use the events to investigate abnormal activity and critical actions and to comply with regulatory audit requirements.

You can use {{site.data.keyword.atracker_full_notm}}, a platform service, to route auditing events in your account to destinations of your choice by configuring targets and routes that define where activity tracking events are sent. For more information, see [About {{site.data.keyword.atracker_full_notm}}](/docs/atracker?topic=atracker-about).

You can use {{site.data.keyword.logs_full_notm}} to visualize and alert on events that are generated in your account and routed by {{site.data.keyword.atracker_full_notm}} to an {{site.data.keyword.logs_full_notm}} instance.



As of 28 March 2024, the {{site.data.keyword.at_full_notm}} service is deprecated and will no longer be supported as of 30 March 2025. Customers will need to migrate to {{site.data.keyword.logs_full_notm}} before 30 March 2025. During the migration period, customers can use {{site.data.keyword.at_full_notm}} along with {{site.data.keyword.logs_full_notm}}. Activity tracking events are the same for both services. For information about migrating from {{site.data.keyword.at_full_notm}} to {{site.data.keyword.logs_full_notm}} and running the services in parallel, see [migration planning](/docs/cloud-logs?topic=cloud-logs-migration-intro).
{: important}

## Locations where activity tracking events are generated
{: #at-locations}

{{site.data.keyword.containerlong_notm}} activity tracking events are generated in all supported regions. 

## Locations where activity tracking events are sent to {{site.data.keyword.at_full_notm}} hosted event search
{: #at-legacy-locations}



{{site.data.keyword.containerlong_notm}} sends activity tracking events to {{site.data.keyword.at_full_notm}} hosted event search in all supported regions. 

## Locations where activity tracking events are sent by {{site.data.keyword.atracker_full_notm}}
{: #atracker-locations}



{{site.data.keyword.containerlong_notm}} sends activity tracking events by {{site.data.keyword.atracker_full_notm}} in all supported regions. 


## Enabling activity tracking events for {{site.data.keyword.containerlong_notm}}
{: #at-enable}

Activity Tracker can be enabled for your cluster during cluster create time. 

1. If you do not already have an instance in your account, [create one](/docs/activity-tracker?topic=activity-tracker-provision). 
2. In the cluster create UI, configure you cluster as required.
3. In the **Observability integrations** section, enable the **Activity Tracker** option. If an Activity Tracker service instance already exists in your account for the region you selected for you cluster, it is automatically connected to your cluster. If there is not an existing instance for the region, one is automatically created for you. Note that only one instance per region can exist in your account. 
4. Continue configuring the cluster. 


## Viewing activity tracking events for {{site.data.keyword.containerlong_notm}}
{: #at-viewing}

To view events, navigate to the **Observability** page in the [console](https://cloud.ibm.com/containers/cluster-management/clusters){: external}, then click **Activity Tracker**. Click the instance you want to view events for, then click **Open dashboard**. A separate window appears where you can view your events. 


### Launching {{site.data.keyword.logs_full_notm}} from the Observability page
{: #log-launch-standalone}



For information on launching the {{site.data.keyword.logs_full_notm}} UI, see [Launching the UI in the {{site.data.keyword.logs_full_notm}} documentation.](/docs/cloud-logs?topic=cloud-logs-instance-launch)


## List of platform events
{: #at_actions_platform}

For a list of all events generated by IBM Cloud Kubernetes Service, see the [{{site.data.keyword.cloud_notm}} Activity Tracker events](/docs/containers?topic=containers-at_events_ref) reference doc.
