cs_troubleshoot_network.md, before:

---

copyright:
  years: 2014, 2020
lastupdated: "2020-02-12"

keywords: kubernetes, iks, help, network, connectivity

subcollection: containers

---

{:codeblock: .codeblock}
{:deprecated: .deprecated}
{:download: .download}
{:external: target="_blank" .external}
{:faq: data-hd-content-type='faq'}
{:gif: data-image-type='gif'}
{:help: data-hd-content-type='help'}
{:important: .important}
{:new_window: target="_blank"}
{:note: .note}
{:pre: .pre}
{:preview: .preview}
{:screen: .screen}
{:shortdesc: .shortdesc}
{:support: data-reuse='support'}
{:table: .aria-labeledby="caption"}
{:tip: .tip}
{:troubleshoot: data-hd-content-type='troubleshoot'}
{:tsCauses: .tsCauses}
{:tsResolve: .tsResolve}
{:tsSymptoms: .tsSymptoms}


# Cluster networking
{: #cs_troubleshoot_network}

As you use {{site.data.keyword.containerlong_notm}}, consider these techniques for troubleshooting the management of your cluster network.
{: shortdesc}

While you troubleshoot, you can use the [{{site.data.keyword.containerlong_notm}} Diagnostics and Debug Tool](/docs/containers?topic=containers-cs_troubleshoot#debug_utility) to run tests and gather pertinent information from your cluster.
{: tip}


## Cluster service DNS resolution sometimes fails when CoreDNS pods are restarted
{: #coredns_lameduck}

{: tsSymptoms}
Your app sometimes fails to resolve DNS names for cluster services around the same time that one or more CoreDNS pods are restarted, such as during a worker reload or patch update.

{: tsCauses}
Your app's DNS request was sent to a CoreDNS pod that was in the process of terminating.

{: tsResolve}
To help the CoreDNS pods terminate more gracefully, you can edit the `coredns` configmap in the `kube-system` namespace. In the `health` plug-in configuration of the main Corefile, add `lameduck 10s`. For more information on customizing CoreDNS, see [Customizing the cluster DNS provider](/docs/containers?topic=containers-cluster_dns#dns_customize). The resulting customization looks like the following example.

```
health {
    lameduck 10s
}
```
{: screen}

<br />


## Cluster service DNS resolution sometimes fails with CoreDNS but not KubeDNS
{: #coredns_issues}

{: tsSymptoms}
In your cluster that runs Kubernetes version 1.15 or earlier, your app sometimes fails to resolve DNS names for cluster services. The failures occur only when CoreDNS, not KubeDNS, is the [configured cluster DNS provider](/docs/containers?topic=containers-cluster_dns). You might see error messages similar to the following.

```
Name or service not known
```
{: screen}

```
No address associated with hostname or similar
```
{: screen}

{: tsCauses}
CoreDNS caching for cluster services behaves differently than the previous cluster DNS provider, KubeDNS, which can cause issues for apps that use an older DNS client.

{: tsResolve}
Update your app to use a newer DNS client. For example, if your app image is Ubuntu 14.04, the older DNS client results in periodic failures. When you update the image to Ubuntu 16.04, the DNS client works.

You can also remove the cache plug-in configurations from the `coredns` configmap in the `kube-system` namespace. For more information on customizing CoreDNS, see [Customizing the cluster DNS provider](/docs/containers?topic=containers-cluster_dns#dns_customize).

<br />



## Cannot establish VPN connectivity with the strongSwan Helm chart
{: #cs_vpn_fails}

{: tsSymptoms}
When you check VPN connectivity by running `kubectl exec  $STRONGSWAN_POD -- ipsec status`, you do not see a status of `ESTABLISHED`, or the VPN pod is in an `ERROR` state or continues to crash and restart.

{: tsCauses}
Your Helm chart configuration file has incorrect values, missing values, or syntax errors.

{: tsResolve}
When you try to establish VPN connectivity with the strongSwan Helm chart, it is likely that the VPN status will not be `ESTABLISHED` the first time. You might need to check for several types of issues and change your configuration file accordingly. To troubleshoot your strongSwan VPN connectivity:

1. [Test and verify the strongSwan VPN connectivity](/docs/containers?topic=containers-vpn#vpn_test) by running the five Helm tests that are included in the strongSwan chart definition.

2. If you are unable to establish VPN connectivity after running the Helm tests, you can run the VPN debugging tool that is packaged inside of the VPN pod image.

    1. Set the `STRONGSWAN_POD` environment variable.

        ```
        export STRONGSWAN_POD=$(kubectl get pod -l app=strongswan,release=vpn -o jsonpath='{ .items[0].metadata.name }')
        ```
        {: pre}

    2. Run the debugging tool.

        ```
        kubectl exec  $STRONGSWAN_POD -- vpnDebug
        ```
        {: pre}

        The tool outputs several pages of information as it runs various tests for common networking issues. Output lines that begin with `ERROR`, `WARNING`, `VERIFY`, or `CHECK` indicate possible errors with the VPN connectivity.

    <br />


## Cannot install a new strongSwan Helm chart release
{: #cs_strongswan_release}

{: tsSymptoms}
You modify your strongSwan Helm chart and try to install your new release by running `helm install vpn iks-charts/strongswan -f config.yaml`. However, you see the following error:
```
Error: release vpn failed: deployments.extensions "vpn-strongswan" already exists
```
{: screen}

{: tsCauses}
This error indicates that the previous release of the strongSwan chart was not completely uninstalled.

{: tsResolve}

1. Delete the previous chart release.
    ```
    helm uninstall vpn -n <namespace>
    ```
    {: pre}

2. Delete the deployment for the previous release. Deletion of the deployment and associated pod takes up to 1 minute.
    ```
    kubectl delete deploy vpn-strongswan
    ```
    {: pre}

3. Verify that the deployment has been deleted. The deployment `vpn-strongswan` does not appear in the list.
    ```
    kubectl get deployments
    ```
    {: pre}

4. Re-install the updated strongSwan Helm chart with a new release name.
    ```
    helm install vpn iks-charts/strongswan -f config.yaml
    ```
    {: pre}

<br />


## strongSwan VPN connectivity fails after you add or delete worker nodes
{: #cs_vpn_fails_worker_add}

{: tsSymptoms}
You previously established a working VPN connection by using the strongSwan IPSec VPN service. However, after you added or deleted a worker node on your cluster, you experience one or more of the following symptoms:

* You do not have a VPN status of `ESTABLISHED`
* You cannot access new worker nodes from your on-prem network
* You cannot access the remote network from pods that are running on new worker nodes

{: tsCauses}
If you added a worker node to a worker pool:

* The worker node was provisioned on a new private subnet that is not exposed over the VPN connection by your existing `localSubnetNAT` or `local.subnet` settings
* VPN routes cannot be added to the worker node because the worker has taints or labels that are not included in your existing `tolerations` or `nodeSelector` settings
* The VPN pod is running on the new worker node, but the public IP address of that worker node is not allowed through the on-premises firewall

If you deleted a worker node:

* That worker node was the only node where a VPN pod was running, due to restrictions on certain taints or labels in your existing `tolerations` or `nodeSelector` settings

{: tsResolve}
Update the Helm chart values to reflect the worker node changes:

1. Delete the existing Helm chart.

    ```
    helm uninstall <release_name> -n <namespace>
    ```
    {: pre}

2. Open the configuration file for your strongSwan VPN service.

    ```
    helm show values ibm/strongswan > config.yaml
    ```
    {: pre}

3. Check the following settings and change the settings to reflect the deleted or added worker nodes as necessary.

    If you added a worker node:

    <table>
    <caption>Worker node settings</caption?
     <thead>
     <th>Setting</th>
     <th>Description</th>
     </thead>
     <tbody>
     <tr>
     <td><code>localSubnetNAT</code></td>
     <td>The added worker might be deployed on a new, different private subnet than the other existing subnets that other worker nodes are on. If you use subnet NAT to remap your cluster's private local IP addresses and the worker was added on a new subnet, add the new subnet CIDR to this setting.</td>
     </tr>
     <tr>
     <td><code>nodeSelector</code></td>
     <td>If you previously limited VPN pod deployment to workers with a specific label, ensure the added worker node also has that label.</td>
     </tr>
     <tr>
     <td><code>tolerations</code></td>
     <td>If the added worker node is tainted, then change this setting to allow the VPN pod to run on all tainted workers with any taints or specific taints.</td>
     </tr>
     <tr>
     <td><code>local.subnet</code></td>
     <td>The added worker might be deployed on a new, different private subnet than the existing subnets that other workers are on. If your apps are exposed by NodePort or LoadBalancer services on the private network and the apps are on the added worker, add the new subnet CIDR to this setting. **Note**: If you add values to `local.subnet`, check the VPN settings for the on-premises subnet to see whether they also must be updated.</td>
     </tr>
     </tbody></table>

    If you deleted a worker node:

    <table>
    <caption>Worker node settings</caption>
     <thead>
     <th>Setting</th>
     <th>Description</th>
     </thead>
     <tbody>
     <tr>
     <td><code>localSubnetNAT</code></td>
     <td>If you use subnet NAT to remap specific private local IP addresses, remove any IP addresses from this setting that are from the old worker. If you use subnet NAT to remap entire subnets and no workers remain on a subnet, remove that subnet CIDR from this setting.</td>
     </tr>
     <tr>
     <td><code>nodeSelector</code></td>
     <td>If you previously limited VPN pod deployment to a single worker and that worker was deleted, change this setting to allow the VPN pod to run on other workers.</td>
     </tr>
     <tr>
     <td><code>tolerations</code></td>
     <td>If the worker that you deleted was not tainted, but the only workers that remain are tainted, change this setting to allow the VPN pod to run on workers with any taints or specific taints.
     </td>
     </tr>
     </tbody></table>

4. Install the new Helm chart with your updated values.

    ```
    helm install <release_name> iks-charts/strongswan -f config.yaml
    ```
    {: pre}

5. Check the chart deployment status. When the chart is ready, the **STATUS** field near the top of the output has a value of `DEPLOYED`.

    ```
    helm status <release_name>
    ```
    {: pre}

6. In some cases, you might need to change your on-prem settings and your firewall settings to match the changes you made to the VPN configuration file.

7. Start the VPN.
    * If the VPN connection is initiated by the cluster (`ipsec.auto` is set to `start`), start the VPN on the on-prem gateway, and then start the VPN on the cluster.
    * If the VPN connection is initiated by the on-prem gateway (`ipsec.auto` is set to `auto`), start the VPN on the cluster, and then start the VPN on the on-prem gateway.

8. Set the `STRONGSWAN_POD` environment variable.

    ```
    export STRONGSWAN_POD=$(kubectl get pod -l app=strongswan,release=<release_name> -o jsonpath='{ .items[0].metadata.name }')
    ```
    {: pre}

9. Check the status of the VPN.

    ```
    kubectl exec  $STRONGSWAN_POD -- ipsec status
    ```
    {: pre}

    * If the VPN connection has a status of `ESTABLISHED`, the VPN connection was successful. No further action is needed.

    * If you are still having connection issues, see [Cannot establish VPN connectivity with the strongSwan Helm chart](#cs_vpn_fails) to further troubleshoot your VPN connection.

<br />


## Cannot retrieve Calico network policies
{: #cs_calico_fails}

{: tsSymptoms}
When you try to view Calico network policies in your cluster by running `calicoctl get policy`, you get one of the following unexpected results or error messages:
- An empty list
- A list of old Calico v2 policies instead of v3 policies
- `Failed to create Calico API client: syntax error in calicoctl.cfg: invalid config file: unknown APIVersion 'projectcalico.org/v3'`

When you try to view Calico network policies in your cluster by running `calicoctl get GlobalNetworkPolicy`, you get one of the following unexpected results or error messages:
- An empty list
- `Failed to create Calico API client: syntax error in calicoctl.cfg: invalid config file: unknown APIVersion 'v1'`
- `Failed to create Calico API client: syntax error in calicoctl.cfg: invalid config file: unknown APIVersion 'projectcalico.org/v3'`
- `Failed to get resources: Resource type 'GlobalNetworkPolicy' is not supported`

{: tsCauses}
To use Calico policies, four factors must all align: your cluster Kubernetes version, Calico CLI version, Calico configuration file syntax, and view policy commands. One or more of these factors is not at the correct version.

{: tsResolve}
You must use the v3.3 or later Calico CLI, `calicoctl.cfg` v3 configuration file syntax, and the `calicoctl get GlobalNetworkPolicy` and `calicoctl get NetworkPolicy` commands.

To ensure that all Calico factors align:

1. [Install and configure a version 3.3 or later Calico CLI](/docs/containers?topic=containers-network_policies#cli_install).
2. Ensure that any policies you create and want to apply to your cluster use [Calico v3 syntax](https://docs.projectcalico.org/v3.3/reference/calicoctl/resources/networkpolicy){: external}. If you have an existing policy `.yaml` or `.json` file in Calico v2 syntax, you can convert it to Calico v3 syntax by using the [`calicoctl convert` command](https://docs.projectcalico.org/v3.3/reference/calicoctl/commands/convert){: external}.
3. To [view policies](/docs/containers?topic=containers-network_policies#view_policies), ensure that you use `calicoctl get GlobalNetworkPolicy` for global policies and `calicoctl get NetworkPolicy --namespace <policy_namespace>` for policies that are scoped to specific namespaces.

<br />


## Feedback, questions, and support
{: #getting_help}

Still having issues with your cluster? Review different ways to get help and support for your {{site.data.keyword.containerlong_notm}} clusters. For any questions or feedback, post in Slack.
{: shortdesc}

**General ways to resolve issues**<br>
1. Keep your cluster environment up to date.
   * Check monthly for available security and operating system patches to [update your worker nodes](/docs/containers?topic=containers-update#worker_node).
   * [Update your cluster](/docs/containers?topic=containers-update#master) to the latest default version for [{{site.data.keyword.containershort}}](/docs/containers?topic=containers-cs_versions).
2. Make sure that your command line tools are up to date.
   * In the terminal, you are notified when updates to the `ibmcloud` CLI and plug-ins are available. Be sure to keep your CLI up-to-date so that you can use all available commands and flags.
   * Make sure that [your `kubectl` CLI](/docs/containers?topic=containers-cs_cli_install#kubectl) client matches the same Kubernetes version as your cluster server. [Kubernetes does not support](https://kubernetes.io/docs/setup/release/version-skew-policy/){: external} `kubectl` client versions that are 2 or more versions apart from the server version (n +/- 2).
<br>

**Reviewing issues and status**<br>
1. To see whether {{site.data.keyword.cloud_notm}} is available, [check the {{site.data.keyword.cloud_notm}} status page](https://cloud.ibm.com/status?selected=status){: external}.
2. Filter for the **Kubernetes Service** component.
<br>

**Feedback and questions**<br>
1. Post in the {{site.data.keyword.containershort}} Slack.
   * If you are an external user, post in the [#general](https://ibm-container-service.slack.com/archives/C4G6362ER){: external} channel.
   * If you are an IBMer, use the [#armada-users](https://ibm-argonauts.slack.com/archives/C4S4NUCB1) channel.<p class="tip">If you do not use an IBMid for your {{site.data.keyword.cloud_notm}} account, [request an invitation](https://cloud.ibm.com/kubernetes/slack){: external} to this Slack.</p>
2. Review forums such as {{site.data.keyword.containershort}} help, Stack Overflow, and IBM Developer to see whether other users ran into the same issue. When you use the forums to ask a question, tag your question so that it is seen by the {{site.data.keyword.cloud_notm}} development teams.
   * If you have technical questions about developing or deploying clusters or apps with {{site.data.keyword.containerlong_notm}}, post your question on [Stack Overflow](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/tagged/ibm-cloud+containers){: external} and tag your question with `ibm-cloud`, `containers`, and `openshift`.
   * For questions about the service and getting started instructions, use the [IBM Developer Answers](https://developer.ibm.com/answers/topics/containers/?smartspace=bluemix){: external} forum. Include the `ibm-cloud` and `containers` tags.
   * See [Getting help](/docs/get-support?topic=get-support-getting-customer-support#using-avatar) for more details about using the forums.
<br>

**Getting help**<br>
1.  Contact IBM Support by opening a case. To learn about opening an IBM support case, or about support levels and case severities, see [Contacting support](/docs/get-support?topic=get-support-getting-customer-support).
2.  In your support case, for **Category**, select **Containers**.
3.  For the **Offering**, select your {{site.data.keyword.containershort}} cluster.<p class="tip">When you report an issue, include your cluster ID. To get your cluster ID, run `ibmcloud ks cluster ls`. You can also use the [{{site.data.keyword.containerlong_notm}} Diagnostics and Debug Tool](/docs/containers?topic=containers-cs_troubleshoot#debug_utility) to gather and export pertinent information from your cluster to share with IBM Support.</p>

Commit message:

Arthur Berger: Merge pull request #5250 from alchemy-containers/adb-clustermsg

cs_troubleshoot_network.md, after:

---

copyright:
  years: 2014, 2020
lastupdated: "2020-03-18"

keywords: kubernetes, iks, help, network, connectivity

subcollection: containers

---

{:codeblock: .codeblock}
{:deprecated: .deprecated}
{:download: .download}
{:external: target="_blank" .external}
{:faq: data-hd-content-type='faq'}
{:gif: data-image-type='gif'}
{:help: data-hd-content-type='help'}
{:important: .important}
{:new_window: target="_blank"}
{:note: .note}
{:pre: .pre}
{:preview: .preview}
{:screen: .screen}
{:shortdesc: .shortdesc}
{:support: data-reuse='support'}
{:table: .aria-labeledby="caption"}
{:tip: .tip}
{:troubleshoot: data-hd-content-type='troubleshoot'}
{:tsCauses: .tsCauses}
{:tsResolve: .tsResolve}
{:tsSymptoms: .tsSymptoms}


# Cluster networking
{: #cs_troubleshoot_network}

As you use {{site.data.keyword.containerlong_notm}}, consider these techniques for troubleshooting the management of your cluster network.
{: shortdesc}

While you troubleshoot, you can use the [{{site.data.keyword.containerlong_notm}} Diagnostics and Debug Tool](/docs/containers?topic=containers-cs_troubleshoot#debug_utility) to run tests and gather pertinent information from your cluster.
{: tip}


## Cluster service DNS resolution sometimes fails when CoreDNS pods are restarted
{: #coredns_lameduck}

{: tsSymptoms}
Your app sometimes fails to resolve DNS names for cluster services around the same time that one or more CoreDNS pods are restarted, such as during a worker reload or patch update.

{: tsCauses}
Your app's DNS request was sent to a CoreDNS pod that was in the process of terminating.

{: tsResolve}
To help the CoreDNS pods terminate more gracefully, you can edit the `coredns` configmap in the `kube-system` namespace. In the `health` plug-in configuration of the main Corefile, add `lameduck 10s`. For more information on customizing CoreDNS, see [Customizing the cluster DNS provider](/docs/containers?topic=containers-cluster_dns#dns_customize). The resulting customization looks like the following example.

```
health {
    lameduck 10s
}
```
{: screen}

<br />


## Cluster service DNS resolution sometimes fails with CoreDNS but not KubeDNS
{: #coredns_issues}

{: tsSymptoms}
In your cluster that runs Kubernetes version 1.15 or earlier, your app sometimes fails to resolve DNS names for cluster services. The failures occur only when CoreDNS, not KubeDNS, is the [configured cluster DNS provider](/docs/containers?topic=containers-cluster_dns). You might see error messages similar to the following.

```
Name or service not known
```
{: screen}

```
No address associated with hostname or similar
```
{: screen}

{: tsCauses}
CoreDNS caching for cluster services behaves differently than the previous cluster DNS provider, KubeDNS, which can cause issues for apps that use an older DNS client.

{: tsResolve}
Update your app to use a newer DNS client. For example, if your app image is Ubuntu 14.04, the older DNS client results in periodic failures. When you update the image to Ubuntu 16.04, the DNS client works.

You can also remove the cache plug-in configurations from the `coredns` configmap in the `kube-system` namespace. For more information on customizing CoreDNS, see [Customizing the cluster DNS provider](/docs/containers?topic=containers-cluster_dns#dns_customize).

<br />



## Cannot establish VPN connectivity with the strongSwan Helm chart
{: #cs_vpn_fails}

{: tsSymptoms}
When you check VPN connectivity by running `kubectl exec  $STRONGSWAN_POD -- ipsec status`, you do not see a status of `ESTABLISHED`, or the VPN pod is in an `ERROR` state or continues to crash and restart.

{: tsCauses}
Your Helm chart configuration file has incorrect values, missing values, or syntax errors.

{: tsResolve}
When you try to establish VPN connectivity with the strongSwan Helm chart, it is likely that the VPN status will not be `ESTABLISHED` the first time. You might need to check for several types of issues and change your configuration file accordingly. To troubleshoot your strongSwan VPN connectivity:

1. [Test and verify the strongSwan VPN connectivity](/docs/containers?topic=containers-vpn#vpn_test) by running the five Helm tests that are included in the strongSwan chart definition.

2. If you are unable to establish VPN connectivity after running the Helm tests, you can run the VPN debugging tool that is packaged inside of the VPN pod image.

    1. Set the `STRONGSWAN_POD` environment variable.

        ```
        export STRONGSWAN_POD=$(kubectl get pod -l app=strongswan,release=vpn -o jsonpath='{ .items[0].metadata.name }')
        ```
        {: pre}

    2. Run the debugging tool.

        ```
        kubectl exec  $STRONGSWAN_POD -- vpnDebug
        ```
        {: pre}

        The tool outputs several pages of information as it runs various tests for common networking issues. Output lines that begin with `ERROR`, `WARNING`, `VERIFY`, or `CHECK` indicate possible errors with the VPN connectivity.

    <br />


## Cannot install a new strongSwan Helm chart release
{: #cs_strongswan_release}

{: tsSymptoms}
You modify your strongSwan Helm chart and try to install your new release by running `helm install vpn iks-charts/strongswan -f config.yaml`. However, you see the following error:
```
Error: release vpn failed: deployments.extensions "vpn-strongswan" already exists
```
{: screen}

{: tsCauses}
This error indicates that the previous release of the strongSwan chart was not completely uninstalled.

{: tsResolve}

1. Delete the previous chart release.
    ```
    helm uninstall vpn -n <namespace>
    ```
    {: pre}

2. Delete the deployment for the previous release. Deletion of the deployment and associated pod takes up to 1 minute.
    ```
    kubectl delete deploy vpn-strongswan
    ```
    {: pre}

3. Verify that the deployment has been deleted. The deployment `vpn-strongswan` does not appear in the list.
    ```
    kubectl get deployments
    ```
    {: pre}

4. Re-install the updated strongSwan Helm chart with a new release name.
    ```
    helm install vpn iks-charts/strongswan -f config.yaml
    ```
    {: pre}

<br />


## strongSwan VPN connectivity fails after you add or delete worker nodes
{: #cs_vpn_fails_worker_add}

{: tsSymptoms}
You previously established a working VPN connection by using the strongSwan IPSec VPN service. However, after you added or deleted a worker node on your cluster, you experience one or more of the following symptoms:

* You do not have a VPN status of `ESTABLISHED`
* You cannot access new worker nodes from your on-prem network
* You cannot access the remote network from pods that are running on new worker nodes

{: tsCauses}
If you added a worker node to a worker pool:

* The worker node was provisioned on a new private subnet that is not exposed over the VPN connection by your existing `localSubnetNAT` or `local.subnet` settings
* VPN routes cannot be added to the worker node because the worker has taints or labels that are not included in your existing `tolerations` or `nodeSelector` settings
* The VPN pod is running on the new worker node, but the public IP address of that worker node is not allowed through the on-premises firewall

If you deleted a worker node:

* That worker node was the only node where a VPN pod was running, due to restrictions on certain taints or labels in your existing `tolerations` or `nodeSelector` settings

{: tsResolve}
Update the Helm chart values to reflect the worker node changes:

1. Delete the existing Helm chart.

    ```
    helm uninstall <release_name> -n <namespace>
    ```
    {: pre}

2. Open the configuration file for your strongSwan VPN service.

    ```
    helm show values ibm/strongswan > config.yaml
    ```
    {: pre}

3. Check the following settings and change the settings to reflect the deleted or added worker nodes as necessary.

    If you added a worker node:

    <table>
    <caption>Worker node settings</caption?
     <thead>
     <th>Setting</th>
     <th>Description</th>
     </thead>
     <tbody>
     <tr>
     <td><code>localSubnetNAT</code></td>
     <td>The added worker might be deployed on a new, different private subnet than the other existing subnets that other worker nodes are on. If you use subnet NAT to remap your cluster's private local IP addresses and the worker was added on a new subnet, add the new subnet CIDR to this setting.</td>
     </tr>
     <tr>
     <td><code>nodeSelector</code></td>
     <td>If you previously limited VPN pod deployment to workers with a specific label, ensure the added worker node also has that label.</td>
     </tr>
     <tr>
     <td><code>tolerations</code></td>
     <td>If the added worker node is tainted, then change this setting to allow the VPN pod to run on all tainted workers with any taints or specific taints.</td>
     </tr>
     <tr>
     <td><code>local.subnet</code></td>
     <td>The added worker might be deployed on a new, different private subnet than the existing subnets that other workers are on. If your apps are exposed by NodePort or LoadBalancer services on the private network and the apps are on the added worker, add the new subnet CIDR to this setting. **Note**: If you add values to `local.subnet`, check the VPN settings for the on-premises subnet to see whether they also must be updated.</td>
     </tr>
     </tbody></table>

    If you deleted a worker node:

    <table>
    <caption>Worker node settings</caption>
     <thead>
     <th>Setting</th>
     <th>Description</th>
     </thead>
     <tbody>
     <tr>
     <td><code>localSubnetNAT</code></td>
     <td>If you use subnet NAT to remap specific private local IP addresses, remove any IP addresses from this setting that are from the old worker. If you use subnet NAT to remap entire subnets and no workers remain on a subnet, remove that subnet CIDR from this setting.</td>
     </tr>
     <tr>
     <td><code>nodeSelector</code></td>
     <td>If you previously limited VPN pod deployment to a single worker and that worker was deleted, change this setting to allow the VPN pod to run on other workers.</td>
     </tr>
     <tr>
     <td><code>tolerations</code></td>
     <td>If the worker that you deleted was not tainted, but the only workers that remain are tainted, change this setting to allow the VPN pod to run on workers with any taints or specific taints.
     </td>
     </tr>
     </tbody></table>

4. Install the new Helm chart with your updated values.

    ```
    helm install <release_name> iks-charts/strongswan -f config.yaml
    ```
    {: pre}

5. Check the chart deployment status. When the chart is ready, the **STATUS** field near the top of the output has a value of `DEPLOYED`.

    ```
    helm status <release_name>
    ```
    {: pre}

6. In some cases, you might need to change your on-prem settings and your firewall settings to match the changes you made to the VPN configuration file.

7. Start the VPN.
    * If the VPN connection is initiated by the cluster (`ipsec.auto` is set to `start`), start the VPN on the on-prem gateway, and then start the VPN on the cluster.
    * If the VPN connection is initiated by the on-prem gateway (`ipsec.auto` is set to `auto`), start the VPN on the cluster, and then start the VPN on the on-prem gateway.

8. Set the `STRONGSWAN_POD` environment variable.

    ```
    export STRONGSWAN_POD=$(kubectl get pod -l app=strongswan,release=<release_name> -o jsonpath='{ .items[0].metadata.name }')
    ```
    {: pre}

9. Check the status of the VPN.

    ```
    kubectl exec  $STRONGSWAN_POD -- ipsec status
    ```
    {: pre}

    * If the VPN connection has a status of `ESTABLISHED`, the VPN connection was successful. No further action is needed.

    * If you are still having connection issues, see [Cannot establish VPN connectivity with the strongSwan Helm chart](#cs_vpn_fails) to further troubleshoot your VPN connection.

<br />


## Cannot retrieve Calico network policies
{: #cs_calico_fails}

{: tsSymptoms}
When you try to view Calico network policies in your cluster by running `calicoctl get policy`, you get one of the following unexpected results or error messages:
- An empty list
- A list of old Calico v2 policies instead of v3 policies
- `Failed to create Calico API client: syntax error in calicoctl.cfg: invalid config file: unknown APIVersion 'projectcalico.org/v3'`

When you try to view Calico network policies in your cluster by running `calicoctl get GlobalNetworkPolicy`, you get one of the following unexpected results or error messages:
- An empty list
- `Failed to create Calico API client: syntax error in calicoctl.cfg: invalid config file: unknown APIVersion 'v1'`
- `Failed to create Calico API client: syntax error in calicoctl.cfg: invalid config file: unknown APIVersion 'projectcalico.org/v3'`
- `Failed to get resources: Resource type 'GlobalNetworkPolicy' is not supported`

{: tsCauses}
To use Calico policies, four factors must all align: your cluster Kubernetes version, Calico CLI version, Calico configuration file syntax, and view policy commands. One or more of these factors is not at the correct version.

{: tsResolve}
You must use the v3.3 or later Calico CLI, `calicoctl.cfg` v3 configuration file syntax, and the `calicoctl get GlobalNetworkPolicy` and `calicoctl get NetworkPolicy` commands.

To ensure that all Calico factors align:

1. [Install and configure a version 3.3 or later Calico CLI](/docs/containers?topic=containers-network_policies#cli_install).
2. Ensure that any policies you create and want to apply to your cluster use [Calico v3 syntax](https://docs.projectcalico.org/v3.3/reference/calicoctl/resources/networkpolicy){: external}. If you have an existing policy `.yaml` or `.json` file in Calico v2 syntax, you can convert it to Calico v3 syntax by using the [`calicoctl convert` command](https://docs.projectcalico.org/v3.3/reference/calicoctl/commands/convert){: external}.
3. To [view policies](/docs/containers?topic=containers-network_policies#view_policies), ensure that you use `calicoctl get GlobalNetworkPolicy` for global policies and `calicoctl get NetworkPolicy --namespace <policy_namespace>` for policies that are scoped to specific namespaces.

<br />


## Feedback, questions, and support
{: #getting_help}

Still having issues with your cluster? Review different ways to get help and support for your {{site.data.keyword.containerlong_notm}} clusters. For any questions or feedback, post in Slack.
{: shortdesc}

**General ways to resolve issues**<br>
1. Keep your cluster environment up to date.
   * Check monthly for available security and operating system patches to [update your worker nodes](/docs/containers?topic=containers-update#worker_node).
   * [Update your cluster](/docs/containers?topic=containers-update#master) to the latest default version for [{{site.data.keyword.containershort}}](/docs/containers?topic=containers-cs_versions).
2. Make sure that your command line tools are up to date.
   * In the terminal, you are notified when updates to the `ibmcloud` CLI and plug-ins are available. Be sure to keep your CLI up-to-date so that you can use all available commands and flags.
   * Make sure that [your `kubectl` CLI](/docs/containers?topic=containers-cs_cli_install#kubectl) client matches the same Kubernetes version as your cluster server. [Kubernetes does not support](https://kubernetes.io/docs/setup/release/version-skew-policy/){: external} `kubectl` client versions that are 2 or more versions apart from the server version (n +/- 2).
<br>

**Reviewing issues and status**<br>
1. To see whether {{site.data.keyword.cloud_notm}} is available, [check the {{site.data.keyword.cloud_notm}} status page](https://cloud.ibm.com/status?selected=status){: external}.
2. Filter for the **Kubernetes Service** component.
<br>

**Feedback and questions**<br>
1. Post in the {{site.data.keyword.containershort}} Slack.
   * If you are an external user, post in the [#general](https://ibm-cloud-success.slack.com/archives/C4G6362ER){: external} channel.
   * If you are an IBMer, use the [#armada-users](https://ibm-argonauts.slack.com/archives/C4S4NUCB1) channel.<p class="tip">If you do not use an IBMid for your {{site.data.keyword.cloud_notm}} account, [request an invitation](https://cloud.ibm.com/kubernetes/slack){: external} to this Slack.</p>
2. Review forums such as {{site.data.keyword.containershort}} help, Stack Overflow, and IBM Developer to see whether other users ran into the same issue. When you use the forums to ask a question, tag your question so that it is seen by the {{site.data.keyword.cloud_notm}} development teams.
   * If you have technical questions about developing or deploying clusters or apps with {{site.data.keyword.containerlong_notm}}, post your question on [Stack Overflow](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/tagged/ibm-cloud+containers){: external} and tag your question with `ibm-cloud`, `containers`, and `openshift`.
   * For questions about the service and getting started instructions, use the [IBM Developer Answers](https://developer.ibm.com/answers/topics/containers/?smartspace=bluemix){: external} forum. Include the `ibm-cloud` and `containers` tags.
   * See [Getting help](/docs/get-support?topic=get-support-getting-customer-support#using-avatar) for more details about using the forums.
<br>

**Getting help**<br>
1. Before you open a support case, gather relevant information about your cluster environment.
   1. Get your cluster details.
      ```
      ibmcloud ks cluster get -c <cluster_name_or_ID>
      ```
      {: pre}
   2. If your issue involves worker nodes, get the worker node details.
      1. List all worker nodes in the cluster, and note the **ID** of any worker nodes with an unhealthy **State** or **Status**.
         ```
         ibmcloud ks worker ls -c <cluster_name_or_ID>
         ```
         {: pre}
      2. Get the details of the unhealthy worker node.
         ```
         ibmcloud ks worker get -w <worker_ID> -c <cluster_name_or_ID>
         ```
         {: pre}
   3. For issues with resources within your cluster such as pods or services, log in to the cluster and use the Kubernetes API to get more information about them. 
   
   You can also use the [{{site.data.keyword.containerlong_notm}} Diagnostics and Debug Tool](/docs/containers?topic=containers-cs_troubleshoot#debug_utility) to gather and export pertinent information to share with IBM Support.
   {: tip}

2.  Contact IBM Support by opening a case. To learn about opening an IBM support case, or about support levels and case severities, see [Contacting support](/docs/get-support?topic=get-support-getting-customer-support).
3.  In your support case, for **Category**, select **Containers**.
4.  For the **Offering**, select your {{site.data.keyword.containershort}} cluster. Include the relevant information that you previously gathered.
