cs_versions_129.md, before:

---

copyright: 
  years: 2023, 2024
lastupdated: "2024-02-16"


keywords: kubernetes, containers, 129, version 129, 129 update actions

subcollection: containers


---

{{site.data.keyword.attribute-definition-list}}



# 1.29 version information and update actions
{: #cs_versions_129}


Review information about version 1.29 of {{site.data.keyword.containerlong}}. For more information about Kubernetes project version 1.29, see the [Kubernetes change log](https://kubernetes.io/releases/notes/.){: external}.
{: shortdesc}




## Release timeline 
{: #release_timeline_129}

The following table includes the expected release timeline for version 1.29 of {{site.data.keyword.containerlong}}. You can use this information for planning purposes, such as to estimate the general time that the version might become unsupported. 
{: shortdesc}

Dates that are marked with a dagger (`†`) are tentative and subject to change.
{: important}

| Version | Supported? | {{site.data.keyword.containerlong_notm}} \n release date | {{site.data.keyword.containerlong_notm}} \n unsupported date |
|------|------|----------|----------|
| 1.29 | Yes | {{site.data.keyword.kubernetes_129_release_date}} | {{site.data.keyword.kubernetes_129_unsupported_date}} `†` |
{: caption="Release timeline for {{site.data.keyword.containerlong_notm}} version 1.29" caption-side="bottom"}


## Preparing to update
{: #prep-up-129}

This information summarizes updates that are likely to have and impact on deployed apps when you update a cluster to version 1.29. For a complete list of changes, review the [community Kubernetes change log](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/blob/master/CHANGELOG/CHANGELOG-1.29.md){: external} and [IBM version change log](/docs/containers?topic=containers-changelog_129) for version 1.29. You can also review the [Kubernetes helpful warnings](https://kubernetes.io/blog/2020/09/03/warnings/){: external}.
{: shortdesc}


[Portworx](/docs/containers?topic=containers-storage_portworx_about) does not yet support version 1.29. If your apps use Portworx, do not upgrade your cluster to version 1.29.
{: important}

[Cluster autoscaler](/docs/containers?topic=containers-cluster-scaling-classic-vpc) does not yet support version 1.29. If your cluster uses cluster autoscaler, do not upgrade your cluster to version 1.29.
{: important}


### Update before master
{: #before_129}

The following table shows the actions that you must take before you update the Kubernetes master.

| Type | Description |
| --- | --- |
| **Unsupported:** `v1beta2` version of the `FlowSchema` and `PriorityLevelConfiguration` API | Migrate manifests and API clients to use the `flowcontrol.apiserver.k8s.io/v1beta3` API version, which is available since Kubernetes version 1.26. For more information, see [Deprecated API Migration Guide - v1.29](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/using-api/deprecation-guide/#v1-29). |
| **Unsupported:** `CronJob` timezone specifications | When creating a `CronJob` resource, setting the `CRON_TZ` or `TZ` timezone specifications by using `.spec.schedule` is no longer allowed. Migrate your `CronJob` resources to use `.spec.timeZone` instead. See [Unsupported TimeZone specification](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/workloads/controllers/cron-jobs/#unsupported-timezone-specification) for details. |
| Updated extra user claim prefix | In the [Kubernetes API server auditing records](/docs/containers?topic=containers-health-audit#audit-api-server), extra user claim information is prefixed with `cloud.ibm.com/authn_` instead of `authn_`. If your apps parsed this information, update them accordingly. |
| Tigera operator namespace migration | Tigera operator component is added and manages the Calico installation. As a result, Calico resources run in the `calico-system` and `tigera-operator` namespaces instead of `kube-system`. These namespaces are configured to be privileged like the `kube-system` namespace. During an upgrade, the Tigera operator migrates Calico resources and customizations from the `kube-system` namespace to the `calico-system` namespace. Check that all of your worker nodes are in `Ready` state. If your cluster workers are not healthy, the Tigera Operator might have issues during the upgrade. Ensure that no policy controller, such as Gatekeeper, or admission webhook is enabled to prevent the creation of a new namespace for Calico components (`calico-system` and `tigera-system`). If you are unsure, upgrade on a test cluster first and run through a set of actions like a master refresh, reloading, or replacing all nodes before proceeding with other clusters. You can continue normal cluster operations during the migration because the migration might be in progress after the cluster master upgrade is completed. If your apps or operations tooling rely on Calico running in the `kube-system` namespace, update them accordingly.  For more information, see [Understanding the Tigera migration](#129-tigera-migration). |
| Calico custom resource short names | For new clusters, Calico custom resource short names `gnp` and `heps` are removed from the `globalnetworkpolicies.crd.projectcalico.org` and `hostendpoints.crd.projectcalico.org` custom resource definitions. Upgraded clusters retain the short names. Either way, if your `kubectl` commands rely on the short names, update them to use the standard names of `globalnetworkpolicies` and  `hostendpoints` instead. |
| Legacy service account token cleanup | [Kubernetes legacy service account token cleaner](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/service-accounts-admin/#legacy-serviceaccount-token-cleaner) automatically labels, invalidates, and deletes unused legacy service account tokens. Tokens are labeled and invalidated when unused for one year, and then if unused for another year, deleted. You can use the `kubectl get secrets -A -l kubernetes.io/legacy-token-last-used -L kubernetes.io/legacy-token-last-used` command to determine when a legacy service account token was last used and the  `kubectl get secrets -A -l kubernetes.io/legacy-token-invalid-since -L kubernetes.io/legacy-token-invalid-since` command to determine if any legacy service account tokens are invalid and future candidates for deletion. Tokens labeled as invalid can be re-actived by removing the `kubernetes.io/legacy-token-invalid-since` label. For more information about these labels, see [`kubernetes.io/legacy-token-last-used`](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/labels-annotations-taints/#kubernetes-io-legacy-token-last-used) and [`kubernetes.io/legacy-token-invalid-since`](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/labels-annotations-taints/#kubernetes-io-legacy-token-invalid-since). |
{: caption="Changes to make before you update the master to Kubernetes 1.29" caption-side="bottom"}


### Update after master
{: #after_129}

The following table shows the actions that you must take after you update the Kubernetes master.

| Type | Description |
| --- | --- |
| Tigera operator namespace migration | After the cluster master upgrade is completed, the Tigera operator namespace migration might still be in progress. For larger clusters, the migration might take several hours to complete. During the migration, Calico resources exist in both the `kube-system` and `calico-system` namespaces. When the migration is completed, Calico resources are fully removed from the `kube-system` namespace with the next cluster master operation. Wait for the migration to complete before upgrading worker nodes because updating, reloading, replacing, or adding nodes during the migration makes the process take longer to complete. The migration must be completed before your cluster is allowed to upgrade to version 1.30. To verify that the migration is complete, run the following commands. If no data is returned, the migration is complete.  `kubectl get nodes -l projectcalico.org/operator-node-migration --no-headers --ignore-not-found ; kubectl get deployment calico-typha -n kube-system -o name --ignore-not-found`. If your apps or operation tooling rely on Calico running in the `kube-system` namespace, update them accordingly. |
| Customizing Calico configuration | Customizing your Calico configuration has changed. Your existing customizations are migrated for you. However, to customize your Calico configuration in the future, see [Changing the Calico maximum transmission unit (MTU)](/docs/containers?topic=containers-kernel#calico-mtu) and [Disabling the port map plug-in](/docs/containers?topic=containers-kernel#calico-portmap). |
{: caption="Changes to make after you update the master to Kubernetes 1.29" caption-side="bottom"}


### Understanding the Tigera resource migration
{: #129-tigera-migration}

In version 1.29, Tigera Operator was introduced to manage Calico resources. All the Calico components are migrated from the `kube-system` to the `calico-system` namespace. During the master upgrade process, a new deployment appears called Tigera Operator, which manages the migration process and the lifecycle of Calico components, such as `calico-node`, `calico-typha`, and `calico-kube-controllers`.
{: shortdesc}

Check the status of the Calico components before beginning the upgrade. The operator can start its job only when all the Calico components are healthy, up, and running.

After the master upgrade is finished, some resources might remain in the `kube-system` namespace. These resources are no longer used by Calico and the next patch upgrade removes them. 

These Calico resources in `kube-system` namespace are no longer needed after the upgrade is complete:
```txt
- "kind": "ConfigMap", "name": "calico-config"
- "kind": "Secret", "name": "calico-bgp-password"
- "kind": "Service", "name": "calico-typha"
- "kind": "Role", "name": "calico-node-secret-access"
- "kind": "RoleBinding", "name": "calico-node-secret-access"
- "kind": "PodDisruptionBudget", "name": "calico-kube-controllers"
- "kind": "PodDisruptionBudget", "name": "calico-typha"
- "kind": "ServiceAccount", "name": "calico-cni-plugin"
- "kind": "ServiceAccount", "name": "calico-kube-controllers"
- "kind": "ServiceAccount", "name": "calico-node"
- "kind": "ClusterRole", "name": "calico-cni-plugin-migration"
- "kind": "ClusterRole", "name": "calico-kube-controllers-migration"
- "kind": "ClusterRoleBinding", "name": "calico-cni-plugin-migration"
- "kind": "ClusterRoleBinding", "name": "calico-kube-controllers-migration"
```
{: codeblock}

Commit message:

Derek Poindexter: Merge pull request #12339 from alchemy-containers/changelogs21feb24

cs_versions_129.md, after:

---

copyright: 
  years: 2023, 2024
lastupdated: "2024-02-21"


keywords: kubernetes, containers, 129, version 129, 129 update actions

subcollection: containers


---

{{site.data.keyword.attribute-definition-list}}



# 1.29 version information and update actions
{: #cs_versions_129}


Review information about version 1.29 of {{site.data.keyword.containerlong}}. For more information about Kubernetes project version 1.29, see the [Kubernetes change log](https://kubernetes.io/releases/notes/.){: external}.
{: shortdesc}


![This badge indicates Kubernetes version 1.29 certification for {{site.data.keyword.containerlong_notm}}](images/certified-kubernetes-color.svg){: caption="Figure 1. Kubernetes version 1.29 certification badge" caption-side="bottom"} 

{{site.data.keyword.containerlong_notm}} is a Certified Kubernetes product for version 1.29 under the CNCF Kubernetes Software Conformance Certification program. _Kubernetes® is a registered trademark of The Linux Foundation in the United States and other countries, and is used pursuant to a license from The Linux Foundation._




## Release timeline 
{: #release_timeline_129}

The following table includes the expected release timeline for version 1.29 of {{site.data.keyword.containerlong}}. You can use this information for planning purposes, such as to estimate the general time that the version might become unsupported. 
{: shortdesc}

Dates that are marked with a dagger (`†`) are tentative and subject to change.
{: important}

| Version | Supported? | {{site.data.keyword.containerlong_notm}} \n release date | {{site.data.keyword.containerlong_notm}} \n unsupported date |
|------|------|----------|----------|
| 1.29 | Yes | {{site.data.keyword.kubernetes_129_release_date}} | {{site.data.keyword.kubernetes_129_unsupported_date}} `†` |
{: caption="Release timeline for {{site.data.keyword.containerlong_notm}} version 1.29" caption-side="bottom"}


## Preparing to update
{: #prep-up-129}

This information summarizes updates that are likely to have and impact on deployed apps when you update a cluster to version 1.29. For a complete list of changes, review the [community Kubernetes change log](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/blob/master/CHANGELOG/CHANGELOG-1.29.md){: external} and [IBM version change log](/docs/containers?topic=containers-changelog_129) for version 1.29. You can also review the [Kubernetes helpful warnings](https://kubernetes.io/blog/2020/09/03/warnings/){: external}.
{: shortdesc}


[Portworx](/docs/containers?topic=containers-storage_portworx_about) does not yet support version 1.29. If your apps use Portworx, do not upgrade your cluster to version 1.29.
{: important}

[Cluster autoscaler](/docs/containers?topic=containers-cluster-scaling-classic-vpc) does not yet support version 1.29. If your cluster uses cluster autoscaler, do not upgrade your cluster to version 1.29.
{: important}


### Update before master
{: #before_129}

The following table shows the actions that you must take before you update the Kubernetes master.

| Type | Description |
| --- | --- |
| **Unsupported:** `v1beta2` version of the `FlowSchema` and `PriorityLevelConfiguration` API | Migrate manifests and API clients to use the `flowcontrol.apiserver.k8s.io/v1beta3` API version, which is available since Kubernetes version 1.26. For more information, see [Deprecated API Migration Guide - v1.29](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/using-api/deprecation-guide/#v1-29). |
| **Unsupported:** `CronJob` timezone specifications | When creating a `CronJob` resource, setting the `CRON_TZ` or `TZ` timezone specifications by using `.spec.schedule` is no longer allowed. Migrate your `CronJob` resources to use `.spec.timeZone` instead. See [Unsupported TimeZone specification](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/workloads/controllers/cron-jobs/#unsupported-timezone-specification) for details. |
| Updated extra user claim prefix | In the [Kubernetes API server auditing records](/docs/containers?topic=containers-health-audit#audit-api-server), extra user claim information is prefixed with `cloud.ibm.com/authn_` instead of `authn_`. If your apps parsed this information, update them accordingly. |
| Tigera operator namespace migration | Tigera operator component is added and manages the Calico installation. As a result, Calico resources run in the `calico-system` and `tigera-operator` namespaces instead of `kube-system`. These namespaces are configured to be privileged like the `kube-system` namespace. During an upgrade, the Tigera operator migrates Calico resources and customizations from the `kube-system` namespace to the `calico-system` namespace. Check that all of your worker nodes are in `Ready` state. If your cluster workers are not healthy, the Tigera Operator might have issues during the upgrade. Ensure that no policy controller, such as Gatekeeper, or admission webhook is enabled to prevent the creation of a new namespace for Calico components (`calico-system` and `tigera-system`). If you are unsure, upgrade on a test cluster first and run through a set of actions like a master refresh, reloading, or replacing all nodes before proceeding with other clusters. You can continue normal cluster operations during the migration because the migration might be in progress after the cluster master upgrade is completed. If your apps or operations tooling rely on Calico running in the `kube-system` namespace, update them accordingly.  For more information, see [Understanding the Tigera migration](#129-tigera-migration). |
| Calico custom resource short names | For new clusters, Calico custom resource short names `gnp` and `heps` are removed from the `globalnetworkpolicies.crd.projectcalico.org` and `hostendpoints.crd.projectcalico.org` custom resource definitions. Upgraded clusters retain the short names. Either way, if your `kubectl` commands rely on the short names, update them to use the standard names of `globalnetworkpolicies` and  `hostendpoints` instead. |
| Legacy service account token cleanup | [Kubernetes legacy service account token cleaner](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/service-accounts-admin/#legacy-serviceaccount-token-cleaner) automatically labels, invalidates, and deletes unused legacy service account tokens. Tokens are labeled and invalidated when unused for one year, and then if unused for another year, deleted. You can use the `kubectl get secrets -A -l kubernetes.io/legacy-token-last-used -L kubernetes.io/legacy-token-last-used` command to determine when a legacy service account token was last used and the  `kubectl get secrets -A -l kubernetes.io/legacy-token-invalid-since -L kubernetes.io/legacy-token-invalid-since` command to determine if any legacy service account tokens are invalid and future candidates for deletion. Tokens labeled as invalid can be re-actived by removing the `kubernetes.io/legacy-token-invalid-since` label. For more information about these labels, see [`kubernetes.io/legacy-token-last-used`](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/labels-annotations-taints/#kubernetes-io-legacy-token-last-used) and [`kubernetes.io/legacy-token-invalid-since`](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/labels-annotations-taints/#kubernetes-io-legacy-token-invalid-since). |
{: caption="Changes to make before you update the master to Kubernetes 1.29" caption-side="bottom"}


### Update after master
{: #after_129}

The following table shows the actions that you must take after you update the Kubernetes master.

| Type | Description |
| --- | --- |
| Tigera operator namespace migration | After the cluster master upgrade is completed, the Tigera operator namespace migration might still be in progress. For larger clusters, the migration might take several hours to complete. During the migration, Calico resources exist in both the `kube-system` and `calico-system` namespaces. When the migration is completed, Calico resources are fully removed from the `kube-system` namespace with the next cluster master operation. Wait for the migration to complete before upgrading worker nodes because updating, reloading, replacing, or adding nodes during the migration makes the process take longer to complete. The migration must be completed before your cluster is allowed to upgrade to version 1.30. To verify that the migration is complete, run the following commands. If no data is returned, the migration is complete.  `kubectl get nodes -l projectcalico.org/operator-node-migration --no-headers --ignore-not-found ; kubectl get deployment calico-typha -n kube-system -o name --ignore-not-found`. If your apps or operation tooling rely on Calico running in the `kube-system` namespace, update them accordingly. |
| Customizing Calico configuration | Customizing your Calico configuration has changed. Your existing customizations are migrated for you. However, to customize your Calico configuration in the future, see [Changing the Calico maximum transmission unit (MTU)](/docs/containers?topic=containers-kernel#calico-mtu) and [Disabling the port map plug-in](/docs/containers?topic=containers-kernel#calico-portmap). |
{: caption="Changes to make after you update the master to Kubernetes 1.29" caption-side="bottom"}


### Understanding the Tigera resource migration
{: #129-tigera-migration}

In version 1.29, Tigera Operator was introduced to manage Calico resources. All the Calico components are migrated from the `kube-system` to the `calico-system` namespace. During the master upgrade process, a new deployment appears called Tigera Operator, which manages the migration process and the lifecycle of Calico components, such as `calico-node`, `calico-typha`, and `calico-kube-controllers`.
{: shortdesc}

Check the status of the Calico components before beginning the upgrade. The operator can start its job only when all the Calico components are healthy, up, and running.

After the master upgrade is finished, some resources might remain in the `kube-system` namespace. These resources are no longer used by Calico and the next patch upgrade removes them. 

These Calico resources in `kube-system` namespace are no longer needed after the upgrade is complete:
```txt
- "kind": "ConfigMap", "name": "calico-config"
- "kind": "Secret", "name": "calico-bgp-password"
- "kind": "Service", "name": "calico-typha"
- "kind": "Role", "name": "calico-node-secret-access"
- "kind": "RoleBinding", "name": "calico-node-secret-access"
- "kind": "PodDisruptionBudget", "name": "calico-kube-controllers"
- "kind": "PodDisruptionBudget", "name": "calico-typha"
- "kind": "ServiceAccount", "name": "calico-cni-plugin"
- "kind": "ServiceAccount", "name": "calico-kube-controllers"
- "kind": "ServiceAccount", "name": "calico-node"
- "kind": "ClusterRole", "name": "calico-cni-plugin-migration"
- "kind": "ClusterRole", "name": "calico-kube-controllers-migration"
- "kind": "ClusterRoleBinding", "name": "calico-cni-plugin-migration"
- "kind": "ClusterRoleBinding", "name": "calico-kube-controllers-migration"
```
{: codeblock}
