cs_versions_autoscaler.md, before:

---

copyright:
  years: 2014, 2020
lastupdated: "2020-11-25"

keywords: autoscaler, add-on, autoscaler changelog

subcollection: containers

---

{:DomainName: data-hd-keyref="APPDomain"}
{:DomainName: data-hd-keyref="DomainName"}
{:android: data-hd-operatingsystem="android"}
{:api: .ph data-hd-interface='api'}
{:apikey: data-credential-placeholder='apikey'}
{:app_key: data-hd-keyref="app_key"}
{:app_name: data-hd-keyref="app_name"}
{:app_secret: data-hd-keyref="app_secret"}
{:app_url: data-hd-keyref="app_url"}
{:authenticated-content: .authenticated-content}
{:beta: .beta}
{:c#: data-hd-programlang="c#"}
{:cli: .ph data-hd-interface='cli'}
{:codeblock: .codeblock}
{:curl: .ph data-hd-programlang='curl'}
{:deprecated: .deprecated}
{:dotnet-standard: .ph data-hd-programlang='dotnet-standard'}
{:download: .download}
{:external: target="_blank" .external}
{:faq: data-hd-content-type='faq'}
{:fuzzybunny: .ph data-hd-programlang='fuzzybunny'}
{:generic: data-hd-operatingsystem="generic"}
{:generic: data-hd-programlang="generic"}
{:gif: data-image-type='gif'}
{:go: .ph data-hd-programlang='go'}
{:help: data-hd-content-type='help'}
{:hide-dashboard: .hide-dashboard}
{:hide-in-docs: .hide-in-docs}
{:important: .important}
{:ios: data-hd-operatingsystem="ios"}
{:java: .ph data-hd-programlang='java'}
{:java: data-hd-programlang="java"}
{:javascript: .ph data-hd-programlang='javascript'}
{:javascript: data-hd-programlang="javascript"}
{:new_window: target="_blank"}
{:note .note}
{:note: .note}
{:objectc data-hd-programlang="objectc"}
{:org_name: data-hd-keyref="org_name"}
{:php: data-hd-programlang="php"}
{:pre: .pre}
{:preview: .preview}
{:python: .ph data-hd-programlang='python'}
{:python: data-hd-programlang="python"}
{:route: data-hd-keyref="route"}
{:row-headers: .row-headers}
{:ruby: .ph data-hd-programlang='ruby'}
{:ruby: data-hd-programlang="ruby"}
{:runtime: architecture="runtime"}
{:runtimeIcon: .runtimeIcon}
{:runtimeIconList: .runtimeIconList}
{:runtimeLink: .runtimeLink}
{:runtimeTitle: .runtimeTitle}
{:screen: .screen}
{:script: data-hd-video='script'}
{:service: architecture="service"}
{:service_instance_name: data-hd-keyref="service_instance_name"}
{:service_name: data-hd-keyref="service_name"}
{:shortdesc: .shortdesc}
{:space_name: data-hd-keyref="space_name"}
{:step: data-tutorial-type='step'}
{:subsection: outputclass="subsection"}
{:support: data-reuse='support'}
{:swift: .ph data-hd-programlang='swift'}
{:swift: data-hd-programlang="swift"}
{:table: .aria-labeledby="caption"}
{:term: .term}
{:tip: .tip}
{:tooling-url: data-tooling-url-placeholder='tooling-url'}
{:troubleshoot: data-hd-content-type='troubleshoot'}
{:tsCauses: .tsCauses}
{:tsResolve: .tsResolve}
{:tsSymptoms: .tsSymptoms}
{:tutorial: data-hd-content-type='tutorial'}
{:ui: .ph data-hd-interface='ui'}
{:unity: .ph data-hd-programlang='unity'}
{:url: data-credential-placeholder='url'}
{:user_ID: data-hd-keyref="user_ID"}
{:vb.net: .ph data-hd-programlang='vb.net'}
{:video: .video}


# Cluster autoscaler add-on changelog
{: #ca_changelog}

View information for patch updates to the cluster autoscaler add-on in your {{site.data.keyword.containerlong_notm}} clusters.
{: shortdesc}

* **Patch updates**: Patch updates are delivered automatically by IBM and do not contain any feature updates or changes in the supported add-on and cluster versions.
* **Release updates**: Release updates contain new features for the cluster autoscaler or changes in the supported add-on or cluster versions. You must manually apply release updates to your cluster autoscaler add-on. To update your cluster autoscaler add-on, see [Updating the cluster autoscaler add-on](/docs/containers?topic=containers-ca#ca_addon_up).

Refer to the following tables for a summary of changes for each version of the [cluster autoscaler add-on](/docs/containers?topic=containers-ca).

| Cluster autoscaler add-on version | Supported? | Kubernetes version support |
| -------------------- | -----------|--------------------------- |
| 1.0.1 | <img src="images/icon-checkmark-confirm.svg" width="32" alt="Supported" style="width:32px;" /> | Kubernetes 1.15 - 1.20.</li></ul> |
{: summary="The rows are read from left to right. The first column is the cluster autoscaler add-on version. The second column is the version's supported state. The third column is the Kubernetes version of your cluster that the cluster autoscaler version is supported for."}

## Changelog for 1.0.1, released 15 August 2020
{: #0101_ca_addon}

The following table shows the changes that are included in version 1.0.1 of the managed cluster autoscaler add-on.
{: shortdesc}

To view a list of add-ons and the supported Kubernetes versions, run the following command.
```
ibmcloud ks addon-versions
```
{: pre}

| Patch version | Image tags | Release date | Supported Kubernetes versions | Description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| `1.0.1_128` | <ul><li>`1.15.4-4`</li><li>`1.16.2-6`</li><li>`1.17.0-7`</li><li>`1.18.1-6`</li><li>`1.19.0-1`</li></ul> | 27 October 2020 | 1.15 - 1.19.</li></ul> | Updates the Go version to `1.15.2` |
| `1.0.1_124` | <ul><li>`1.15.4-4`</li><li>`1.16.2-6`</li><li>`1.17.0-7`</li><li>`1.18.1-6`</li><li>`1.19.0-1`</li></ul> | 16 October 2020 | 1.15 - 1.19.</li></ul> | <ul><li>Exposes the `--new-pod-scale-up-delay` flag in the configmap. The default value is </li><li>Adds support for Kubernetes 1.19.</li></ul> |
| `1.0.1_114` | <ul><li>`1.15.4-4`</li><li>`1.16.2-5`</li><li>`1.17.0-6`</li><li>`1.18.1-5`</li></ul> | 10 September 2020 | 1.15 - 1.18.</li></ul> | <ul><li>Includes fixes for `CVE-5188` and `CVE-3180`.</li><li>Unlike the previous Helm chart, you can modify all of the add-on configuration settings via a single configmap.</li></ul> |
{: summary="The rows are read from left to right. The first column is the patch version of the component. The second column lists the images tags of the component. The third column contains the release date of the component. The fourth column contains a brief description of the change made to the component."}
{: caption="Cluster autoscaler 1.0.1" caption-side="top"}

Commit message:

Derek Poindexter: Merge pull request #6264 from alchemy-containers/autoscaler-changelog

cs_versions_autoscaler.md, after:

---

copyright:
  years: 2014, 2020
lastupdated: "2020-12-01"

keywords: autoscaler, add-on, autoscaler changelog

subcollection: containers

---

{:DomainName: data-hd-keyref="APPDomain"}
{:DomainName: data-hd-keyref="DomainName"}
{:android: data-hd-operatingsystem="android"}
{:api: .ph data-hd-interface='api'}
{:apikey: data-credential-placeholder='apikey'}
{:app_key: data-hd-keyref="app_key"}
{:app_name: data-hd-keyref="app_name"}
{:app_secret: data-hd-keyref="app_secret"}
{:app_url: data-hd-keyref="app_url"}
{:authenticated-content: .authenticated-content}
{:beta: .beta}
{:c#: data-hd-programlang="c#"}
{:cli: .ph data-hd-interface='cli'}
{:codeblock: .codeblock}
{:curl: .ph data-hd-programlang='curl'}
{:deprecated: .deprecated}
{:dotnet-standard: .ph data-hd-programlang='dotnet-standard'}
{:download: .download}
{:external: target="_blank" .external}
{:faq: data-hd-content-type='faq'}
{:fuzzybunny: .ph data-hd-programlang='fuzzybunny'}
{:generic: data-hd-operatingsystem="generic"}
{:generic: data-hd-programlang="generic"}
{:gif: data-image-type='gif'}
{:go: .ph data-hd-programlang='go'}
{:help: data-hd-content-type='help'}
{:hide-dashboard: .hide-dashboard}
{:hide-in-docs: .hide-in-docs}
{:important: .important}
{:ios: data-hd-operatingsystem="ios"}
{:java: .ph data-hd-programlang='java'}
{:java: data-hd-programlang="java"}
{:javascript: .ph data-hd-programlang='javascript'}
{:javascript: data-hd-programlang="javascript"}
{:new_window: target="_blank"}
{:note .note}
{:note: .note}
{:objectc data-hd-programlang="objectc"}
{:org_name: data-hd-keyref="org_name"}
{:php: data-hd-programlang="php"}
{:pre: .pre}
{:preview: .preview}
{:python: .ph data-hd-programlang='python'}
{:python: data-hd-programlang="python"}
{:route: data-hd-keyref="route"}
{:row-headers: .row-headers}
{:ruby: .ph data-hd-programlang='ruby'}
{:ruby: data-hd-programlang="ruby"}
{:runtime: architecture="runtime"}
{:runtimeIcon: .runtimeIcon}
{:runtimeIconList: .runtimeIconList}
{:runtimeLink: .runtimeLink}
{:runtimeTitle: .runtimeTitle}
{:screen: .screen}
{:script: data-hd-video='script'}
{:service: architecture="service"}
{:service_instance_name: data-hd-keyref="service_instance_name"}
{:service_name: data-hd-keyref="service_name"}
{:shortdesc: .shortdesc}
{:space_name: data-hd-keyref="space_name"}
{:step: data-tutorial-type='step'}
{:subsection: outputclass="subsection"}
{:support: data-reuse='support'}
{:swift: .ph data-hd-programlang='swift'}
{:swift: data-hd-programlang="swift"}
{:table: .aria-labeledby="caption"}
{:term: .term}
{:tip: .tip}
{:tooling-url: data-tooling-url-placeholder='tooling-url'}
{:troubleshoot: data-hd-content-type='troubleshoot'}
{:tsCauses: .tsCauses}
{:tsResolve: .tsResolve}
{:tsSymptoms: .tsSymptoms}
{:tutorial: data-hd-content-type='tutorial'}
{:ui: .ph data-hd-interface='ui'}
{:unity: .ph data-hd-programlang='unity'}
{:url: data-credential-placeholder='url'}
{:user_ID: data-hd-keyref="user_ID"}
{:vb.net: .ph data-hd-programlang='vb.net'}
{:video: .video}


# Cluster autoscaler add-on changelog
{: #ca_changelog}

View information for patch updates to the cluster autoscaler add-on in your {{site.data.keyword.containerlong_notm}} clusters.
{: shortdesc}

* **Patch updates**: Patch updates are delivered automatically by IBM and do not contain any feature updates or changes in the supported add-on and cluster versions.
* **Release updates**: Release updates contain new features for the cluster autoscaler or changes in the supported add-on or cluster versions. You must manually apply release updates to your cluster autoscaler add-on. To update your cluster autoscaler add-on, see [Updating the cluster autoscaler add-on](/docs/containers?topic=containers-ca#ca_addon_up).

Refer to the following tables for a summary of changes for each version of the [cluster autoscaler add-on](/docs/containers?topic=containers-ca).

| Cluster autoscaler add-on version | Supported? | Kubernetes version support |
| -------------------- | -----------|--------------------------- |
| 1.0.1 | <img src="images/icon-checkmark-confirm.svg" width="32" alt="Supported" style="width:32px;" /> | Kubernetes 1.15 - 1.20.</li></ul> |
{: summary="The rows are read from left to right. The first column is the cluster autoscaler add-on version. The second column is the version's supported state. The third column is the Kubernetes version of your cluster that the cluster autoscaler version is supported for."}

## Changelog for 1.0.1, released 15 August 2020
{: #0101_ca_addon}

The following table shows the changes that are included in version 1.0.1 of the managed cluster autoscaler add-on.
{: shortdesc}

To view a list of add-ons and the supported Kubernetes versions, run the following command.
```
ibmcloud ks addon-versions
```
{: pre}

| Patch version | Image tags | Release date | Supported Kubernetes versions | Description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| `1.0.1_146` | <ul><li>`1.15.4-4`</li><li>`1.16.2-7`</li><li>`1.17.0-8`</li><li>`1.18.1-7`</li><li>`1.19.0-2`</li></ul>  | 02 December 2020 | 1.15 - 1.19 | <ul><li>The cluster autoscaler now runs as non-root.</li><li>Adds a feature to validate secrets before the autoscaler pods are initialized.</li></ul> | 
| `1.0.1_128` | <ul><li>`1.15.4-4`</li><li>`1.16.2-6`</li><li>`1.17.0-7`</li><li>`1.18.1-6`</li><li>`1.19.0-1`</li></ul> | 27 October 2020 | 1.15 - 1.19.</li></ul> | Updates the Go version to `1.15.2` |
| `1.0.1_124` | <ul><li>`1.15.4-4`</li><li>`1.16.2-6`</li><li>`1.17.0-7`</li><li>`1.18.1-6`</li><li>`1.19.0-1`</li></ul> | 16 October 2020 | 1.15 - 1.19.</li></ul> | <ul><li>Exposes the `--new-pod-scale-up-delay` flag in the configmap. The default value is </li><li>Adds support for Kubernetes 1.19.</li></ul> |
| `1.0.1_114` | <ul><li>`1.15.4-4`</li><li>`1.16.2-5`</li><li>`1.17.0-6`</li><li>`1.18.1-5`</li></ul> | 10 September 2020 | 1.15 - 1.18.</li></ul> | <ul><li>Includes fixes for `CVE-5188` and `CVE-3180`.</li><li>Unlike the previous Helm chart, you can modify all of the add-on configuration settings via a single configmap.</li></ul> |
{: summary="The rows are read from left to right. The first column is the patch version of the component. The second column lists the images tags of the component. The third column contains the release date of the component. The fourth column contains a brief description of the change made to the component."}
{: caption="Cluster autoscaler 1.0.1" caption-side="top"}
