encryption-setup.md, before:

---

copyright: 
  years: 2023, 2024
lastupdated: "2024-03-15"


keywords: containers, kubernetes, red hat, encrypt, security, kms, root key, crk

subcollection: containers


---

{{site.data.keyword.attribute-definition-list}}

# Setting up a key management service (KMS) provider
{: #encryption-setup}


[Virtual Private Cloud]{: tag-vpc} [Classic infrastructure]{: tag-classic-inf} [{{site.data.keyword.satelliteshort}}]{: tag-satellite}

You can protect Kubernetes secrets and any credentials stored in your secrets by enabling a key management service (KMS) provider, such as {{site.data.keyword.keymanagementservicefull}} or {{site.data.keyword.hscrypto}}.



Do not delete root keys in your KMS instance, even if you rotate to a new key. If you delete a root key that a cluster uses, the cluster becomes unusable, loses all its data, and can't be recovered. Similarly, if you disable a root key, operations that rely on reading secrets fail. Unlike deleting a root key, however, you can reenable a disabled key to make your cluster usable again.
{: important}

Before you can enable a key management service (KMS) provider in your cluster, you must first create a KMS instance and a root key. 

1. Create an instance of the KMS provider that you want to use.
    - [{{site.data.keyword.keymanagementserviceshort}}](/docs/key-protect?topic=key-protect-provision#provision).
    - [{{site.data.keyword.hscrypto}}](https://cloud.ibm.com/catalog/services/hyper-protect-crypto-services){: external}.

1. Create a root key in your KMS instance.
    - [{{site.data.keyword.keymanagementserviceshort}} root key](/docs/key-protect?topic=key-protect-create-root-keys#create-root-keys).
    - [{{site.data.keyword.hscrypto}} root key](/docs/hs-crypto?topic=hs-crypto-create-root-keys). By default, the root key is created without an expiration date.

    **{{site.data.keyword.keymanagementserviceshort}}:** Need to set an expiration date to comply with internal security policies? [Create the root key by using the API](/docs/key-protect?topic=key-protect-create-root-keys&interface=api#create-root-key-api) and include the `expirationDate` parameter. **Important**: Before your root key expires, repeat these steps to update your cluster to use a new root key. When a root key expires, the cluster secrets can't be decrypted and your cluster becomes unusable. Depending on the cluster version, the time lapse between the root key expiring and the cluster no longer being able to decrypt secrets might be about an hour, or when the master is refreshed.
    {: tip}

1. Make sure that you have the correct permissions in {{site.data.keyword.cloud_notm}} Identity and Access Management (IAM) to enable KMS in your cluster.
    * Ensure that you have the [**Administrator** {{site.data.keyword.cloud_notm}} IAM platform access role](/docs/containers?topic=containers-iam-platform-access-roles) for the cluster.
    * Ensure that the API key owner of the [API key](/docs/containers?topic=containers-iam-platform-access-roles) that is set for the region and resource group that your cluster is in has the correct permissions for the KMS provider.
        * For example, to create an instance and root key, you need at least the **Editor** platform and **Writer** service access roles for your KMS provider.
        * If you plan to use an existing KMS instance and root key, you need at least the **Viewer** platform and **Reader** service access roles for your KMS provider.

1. **Optional** Complete the following additional steps if you plan to [set up worker node disk encryption for a VPC cluster](/docs/containers?topic=containers-encryption-vpc-worker-disks).

1. Create a cluster and enable secret encryption.

## Rotating your KMS root key
{: #encryption-rotate}

To rotate the root key that is used to encrypt your cluster, you can repeat the steps to enable KMS encryption from your KMS provider CLI or console. When you rotate a root key, you can't reuse a previous root key for the same cluster.

You can rotate the root key from your KMS instance. This action automatically re-enables KMS in your cluster with the new root key. To manually rotate your keys, see your KMS provider docs.

* {{site.data.keyword.keymanagementservicefull}}: See [Rotating your keys](/docs/key-protect?topic=key-protect-getting-started-tutorial#get-started-next-steps-best-practices-key-rotate).
* {{site.data.keyword.hscrypto}}: See [Rotating root keys manually](/docs/hs-crypto?topic=hs-crypto-rotate-keys).

Commit message:

Marissa Treible: Merge pull request #12440 from alchemy-containers/service-auth

encryption-setup.md, after:

---

copyright: 
  years: 2023, 2024
lastupdated: "2024-03-19"


keywords: containers, kubernetes, red hat, encrypt, security, kms, root key, crk

subcollection: containers


---

{{site.data.keyword.attribute-definition-list}}

# Setting up a key management service (KMS) provider
{: #encryption-setup}


[Virtual Private Cloud]{: tag-vpc} [Classic infrastructure]{: tag-classic-inf} [{{site.data.keyword.satelliteshort}}]{: tag-satellite}

You can protect Kubernetes secrets and any credentials stored in your secrets by enabling a key management service (KMS) provider, such as {{site.data.keyword.keymanagementservicefull}} or {{site.data.keyword.hscrypto}}.



Do not delete root keys in your KMS instance, even if you rotate to a new key. If you delete a root key that a cluster uses, the cluster becomes unusable, loses all its data, and can't be recovered. Similarly, if you disable a root key, operations that rely on reading secrets fail. Unlike deleting a root key, however, you can reenable a disabled key to make your cluster usable again.
{: important}

Before you can enable a key management service (KMS) provider in your cluster, you must first create a KMS instance and a root key. 

1. Create an instance of the KMS provider that you want to use.
    - [{{site.data.keyword.keymanagementserviceshort}}](/docs/key-protect?topic=key-protect-provision#provision).
    - [{{site.data.keyword.hscrypto}}](https://cloud.ibm.com/catalog/services/hyper-protect-crypto-services){: external}.

1. Create a root key in your KMS instance.
    - [{{site.data.keyword.keymanagementserviceshort}} root key](/docs/key-protect?topic=key-protect-create-root-keys#create-root-keys).
    - [{{site.data.keyword.hscrypto}} root key](/docs/hs-crypto?topic=hs-crypto-create-root-keys). By default, the root key is created without an expiration date.

    **{{site.data.keyword.keymanagementserviceshort}}:** Need to set an expiration date to comply with internal security policies? [Create the root key by using the API](/docs/key-protect?topic=key-protect-create-root-keys&interface=api#create-root-key-api) and include the `expirationDate` parameter. **Important**: Before your root key expires, repeat these steps to update your cluster to use a new root key. When a root key expires, the cluster secrets can't be decrypted and your cluster becomes unusable. Depending on the cluster version, the time lapse between the root key expiring and the cluster no longer being able to decrypt secrets might be about an hour, or when the master is refreshed.
    {: tip}

1. Check that you have the required service authorization policies in {{site.data.keyword.cloud_notm}} IAM. Navigate to the [service authorizations](https://cloud.ibm.com/iam/authorizations){: external} page in the console and look for an authorization with the **Source service** specified as **Kubernetes service**, the **Target service** specified as your KMS provider (such as Key Protect), and the **Target account** specified as the account the cluster resides in. If you do not see the service authorization, create it by following these steps:
    - **Required service access policy for Kubernetes Service and the KMS provider**
        1. Set the **Source account** for **This account** if the cluster you want to authorize accessing KMS resides in the current account, otherwise if the cluster located under a different account, select **Other account** and provide the account ID.
        2. Set the **Source service** to **Kubernetes Service**.
        3. Set the **Target service** to your KMS provider, such as **Key Protect**.
        4. Include at least **Reader** service access.
        5. Enable the authorization to be delegated by the source and dependent services.

1. Make sure that you have the correct permissions in {{site.data.keyword.cloud_notm}} Identity and Access Management (IAM) to enable KMS in your cluster.
    * Ensure that you have the [**Administrator** {{site.data.keyword.cloud_notm}} IAM platform access role](/docs/containers?topic=containers-iam-platform-access-roles) for the cluster.
    * Ensure that the API key owner of the [API key](/docs/containers?topic=containers-iam-platform-access-roles) that is set for the region and resource group that your cluster is in has the correct permissions for the KMS provider.
        * For example, to create an instance and root key, you need at least the **Editor** platform and **Writer** service access roles for your KMS provider.
        * If you plan to use an existing KMS instance and root key, you need at least the **Viewer** platform and **Reader** service access roles for your KMS provider.

1. **Optional** Complete the following additional steps if you plan to [set up worker node disk encryption for a VPC cluster](/docs/containers?topic=containers-encryption-vpc-worker-disks).

1. Create a cluster and enable secret encryption.

## Rotating your KMS root key
{: #encryption-rotate}

To rotate the root key that is used to encrypt your cluster, you can repeat the steps to enable KMS encryption from your KMS provider CLI or console. When you rotate a root key, you can't reuse a previous root key for the same cluster.

You can rotate the root key from your KMS instance. This action automatically re-enables KMS in your cluster with the new root key. To manually rotate your keys, see your KMS provider docs.

* {{site.data.keyword.keymanagementservicefull}}: See [Rotating your keys](/docs/key-protect?topic=key-protect-getting-started-tutorial#get-started-next-steps-best-practices-key-rotate).
* {{site.data.keyword.hscrypto}}: See [Rotating root keys manually](/docs/hs-crypto?topic=hs-crypto-rotate-keys).




    Go to https://cloud.ibm.com/iam/authorizations
    Select the appropriate account for the KMS instance. (Either This account if the KMS instance is in the same account or Another account if not. If it is another account, specify the account ID.
    Set the Source service to Kubernetes Service.
    Set the Target service to your KMS provider (Key Protect or HPCS)
    Select Reader service access.
    Select the Authorize button.
