<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--Arbortext, Inc., 1988-2011, v.4002-->
<!DOCTYPE tsTroubleshooting PUBLIC "-//IBM//DTD DITA Troubleshooting//EN"
 "troubleshooting.dtd">
<!--http://w3.opensource.ibm.com/projects/ditatroublespec/ -->
<!--This DITA specialized document type is currently not supported by the Authoring Tools development team. Press the F1 key for online help on the tags, or see the Authoring Tools Information Center for the complete set of help topics at http://submit.boulder.ibm.com/infocenter/idwb/v3r8m4/index.jsp.-->
<tsTroubleshooting id="ts_cf_ic_registry_error" xml:lang="ja-jp" class="- topic/topic tsTroubleshooting/tsTroubleshooting ">
<title><codeph><ph conref="container_conref.dita#links/command_prefix"></ph> init</codeph> でレジストリー認証エラーを受け取る
</title>
<titlealts>
<navtitle>init でのレジストリー認証</navtitle>
<searchtitle><keyword conref="cloudoeconrefs.dita#cloudoeconrefs/containerlong"></keyword> で <codeph><ph conref="container_conref.dita#links/command_prefix"></ph> init</codeph> を実行するとレジストリー認証エラーを受け取る</searchtitle></titlealts>
<shortdesc></shortdesc>
<tsBody class="- topic/body tsTroubleshooting/tsBody ">
<tsSymptoms class="- topic/section tsTroubleshooting/tsSymptoms "><codeph><ph conref="container_conref.dita#links/command_prefix"></ph> init</codeph> を実行すると、次の認証エラー・メッセージのいずれかが表示されます。<p><ul>
<li><codeblock>Could not authenticate with IBM Containers registry at registry.<keyword conref="cloudoeconrefs.dita#cloudoeconrefs/domainname"></keyword>
****exit status 1
****time="2015-07-31T08:58:32-04:00" level=fatal msg="Post http:///var/run/docker.sock/v1.18/auth: dial 
unix /var/run/docker.sock: no such file or directory. Are you trying to connect to a TLS-enabled daemon without TLS?”</codeblock></li>
<li><codeblock>** Retrieving client certificates from IBM Containers
Authentication failure. Check your username and password
Invalid token format. Please generate new token.</codeblock></li></ul></p></tsSymptoms>
<tsCauses class="- topic/section tsTroubleshooting/tsCauses "><ph conref="container_conref.dita#links/command_prefix"></ph> 前提条件の 1 つが満たされていないか、<keyword conref="cloudoeconrefs.dita#cloudoeconrefs/containerlong"></keyword> が使用可能でありません。</tsCauses>
<tsResolve class="- topic/section tsTroubleshooting/tsResolve "><ol>
<li>Docker デーモンが実行中であることを確認します。実行されていない場合は開始して、<codeph><ph conref="container_conref.dita#links/command_prefix"></ph> init</codeph> を再実行します。</li>
<li><codeph>bx login</codeph> を実行して、Cloud Foundry CLI にログインしていることを確認します。その後、<codeph><ph conref="container_conref.dita#links/command_prefix"></ph> init</codeph> を実行してプラグインに再ログインします。</li>
<li><keyword conref="cloudoeconrefs.dita#cloudoeconrefs/containerlong"></keyword> の可用性を確認します。<xref href="https://developer.ibm.com/bluemix/support/#status" format="html" scope="external"><keyword conref="cloudoeconrefs.dita#cloudoeconrefs/bluemix_short"></keyword> 状況ページで情報をチェックしてください</xref>。</li></ol></tsResolve></tsBody></tsTroubleshooting>
